So classes don't have a static member.
You know what a static member is of
a class in Java or other languages?
Where you apply functions and
constants or variables,
to the class itself like global members,
instead of two instances.
But here in Kotlin,
what we do have is an object within
the class known as the companion object,
okay?
So we have a class and
each class has a companion object
that goes with the class, okay?
So we are together in this life, and
the companion object is an object
with variables, constants and
functions, that then you can apply
to the class and not to the options.
For example,
we have the printAll in the user class.
So the companion object
is the static of Java.
Everything you put in the companion
object, it's available
through the class name, and
not through instances of that class.
Does it make sense?
>> So it's not an inner class?
>> It's not an inner class, no.
It's an object so it's an instance,
when you see the object keyword
it's an instance, not the class.
So what we put inside is actually
an object that is applied to the class.
>> So its like an anonymous object?
>> It's like an anonymous object, yeah,
but you can have only one over the class.
And actually, there are ways to convert
Kotlin to Java and Java to Kotlin, okay?
In fact, fun fact,
if you look for some Java code,
Java code for, I don't know,
whatever, algorithm.
Let me see if I can see some code quickly.
These are Java, right?
So if I copy Java code, and
I am not sure if it's gonna
work in this file, let me try.
Yeah, it works.
So when you paste Java
code into a Kotlin file,
And the studio is automatically
converting that Java code into Kotlin.
Even we could see how that changes,
because it's interchangeable if you want.
So, when you are moving
from Kotlin to Java,
the companion object becomes
static members of the class.
So collection, it's actually a property,
a static property of user.
I'm simplifying the explanation,
but it's kind of what's going on.
>> So somewhere in there,
you can do user.collection operate on it?
>> Yep.
>> Within the class?
>> Within the class or
outside of the class,
because there is the companion
object is public.
So unless you make something private,
implicitly you can.
But outside, I can do this, or
here I can also access the collection.
I don't need the prefix user, but
having in mind that collection I will
actually be available for all the users.
So all the users are sharing
the companion object is one object for
all the users, okay.
So, all the instances of that class will
have access to the same companion object.
>> And that will be initialized
when the class is initialized?
>> Yeah, the companion object
it's automatically created when
the class is initialized.
Actually, when you start the app,
because you don't need to use the class.
You don't need to create
instances of the class, Okay?
So, it's like a global.
The same happens with static methods.
In JavaScript, so if you're coming
from JavaScript, this is like,
I don't know if you create a class,
this is JavaScript, right?
So if you have a class in JavaScript,
no parenthesis, sorry,
then you can apply methods
directly to the class, like this.
So these are similar to static, and
now JavaScript supports
also the static keyword.
It's kind of new in ECMAScript, okay?
So you can also implement
similar solutions in JavaScript,
in case you're coming from JavaScript,
okay?
We have seal classes.
A seal class is a class
that can have no instances.
So actually, and it's not abstract.
Typically a seal class is
only with a companion object.
Typically, it's been used for
storing objects, global utilities.
Okay, so it's like a place,
because its useful because in
Android we cannot have global
functions drop anywhere.
So we need a container.
Well, a sealed class
it's kind of a container,
and because it's sealed we
cannot create instances of it.
So, I mean a compiler will say no,
this is a sealed class.
Don't create an instance of utilities.
Just use the members of it, okay?
We have enum classes.
Is weird that is called enum class and
not enum alone, okay?
But it's an enum as you're
used to in other languages.
The difference is that it's a class
because actually it's a class behind
scenes.
So we can create a direction and
then it accepts a set of values, and
also each value can have an inner
value and a raw value assign.
For example,
you can say class color of integer.
And finally, data class.
So what a data class is,
it includes basic behavior for
classes using data, holding data,
they're going to use that data.
So for example, it has a better toString.
By default, toString of a class will
give you the name of the class.
Completely useless.
Well, a data class will re-implement
the toString method and
it will show you all
the variables with its values.
It also includes equals.
So then you can use equals equals,
and it is going to match its property.
So if you have two products, it will give
you true if they have the same values even
if there are two instances.
Okay, make sense?
And also copy, copy to clone.
So you can call copy automatically.
So when you have classes
that are holding data,
it's better to use data class in Kotlin,
because we have
better built-in utilities and
solutions available for you.
Okay, makes sense?
Kind of?
Actually, we have just over 70% of Kotlin.
So you can see it's
pretty straightforward.
There are more things,
more advanced topics, but
actually with this we can start playing
on creating our user interface.